What should JD Vance do about
anti-semitism in his coalition?
>> Okay, look,
>> not tomorrow, but over the next two
years,
>> I I I deliver my advice to JD and to
other people in Washington, not over the
airwaves, and they might not appreciate
it, but let's
>> a hypothetical leader of a hypothetical
[music] right of center party. Put it
this way. Are you trying to Is it more
about sort of vocal condemnation or is
it more about [music]
>> institutional gatekeeping?
>> [music]
>> Why is anti-semitism surging on the
American right? Has the America first
takeover of the Republican party
undermine [music] conservative support
for Israel? The Republican party
completely betrayed its voters by
obsessing over Israel. Does America
[music] really want to be Israel's dance
partner?
>> The Israel lobby used to be all
powerful. It ain't all powerful anymore.
And [music] is it possible to have
nationalism without anti-semitism?
My [music] guest today is an Israeli
political theorist and one of the
leading advocates [music] for political
nationalism in America, in Israel, and
around [music] the world. His national
conservative conferences have brought
together a who's who of right-wing
[music] figures and provided a road map
for the second Trump administration.
Yoram Hazonei, welcome to [music]
Interesting Times.
Thank you, Ross. The these are
interesting times. So,
>> people I always like to get people to
say that it's good for the promotional
trailer. So, thank you for for that.
[gasps]
I want to start with a broad but basic
question. You've just been in Washington
DC
having exciting meetings. I'm sure
there's a lot of talk and argument in
the air about the growing influence of
figures like the white nationalist and
anti-semitic online star Nick Fuentes.
Just how bad really is anti-semitism on
the American right now?
>> Well, I I think it's pretty bad. Um the
the context
uh for American Jews and for you know
for others who care care about
anti-semitism the context is first of
all a dramatic increase in radical
Islamic and and leftist anti-semitism
which is such a powerful force that many
of my Jewish friends uh have come to the
conclusion that the Democratic party is
not that there's no future
there for them. And so the the question
is whether the Republican party is
actually going to be a party that has
some kind of a an an appropriate future
for uh for for Jews. That that that that
is a very big question. Now now was
wasn't a question for for a number of
years. Of course, all sorts of, you
know, people have accused Trump of
anti-semitism and but it turns out that
that that was pretty much um hot air.
And Donald Trump likes having Jews in
his coalition. Trump turns out to have
probably the most pro-Jewish
uh administration that there's ever
been. And at the same time, it's very
clear over the last year, certainly over
the last six months, that figures in in
the online right
uh who
are important in this coalition. Tucker
Carlson is, you know, he he's the most
obvious example. Candace Owens is a less
obvious example. Um but they and others
who let's say they uh a few years ago
they were kind of mainstream normal
conservatives [snorts] and uh
[clears throat] now they are reigning
over a part of the online right that is
um sharply veering towards a wide
variety of uh aggressive anti-Jewish
messages.
Let's so
let's talk about who we're talking about
maybe beyond the specific media figures
influencers. My friend Rodrier got let's
say a lot of attention for quoting
someone telling him that 30 to 40% of
younger Republicans working in politics
in DC like Nick Fuentes. I have a little
skepticism of that statistic. the fact
that half of Republican Capitol Hill
staffers are women, I think alone should
give you some some reason to be to be
skeptical, but do you see this as a
phenomenon of younger conservatives and
right-wingers? Do you see it as a
phenomenon of an audience that wasn't
anti-Semitic being activated or drawn in
a particular direction? What are we
talking about
>> in terms of the scale of interest in
>> anti-semitism? think I think the numbers
are wrong, but I I I think the analysis
is is basically right. It's young people
who are subjected they're they're
subjected to uh savage anti-semitic
messaging all the time.
>> Okay.
>> On the internet.
>> On the internet. That's new. That's new
in this generation. Like, you know, a
generation ago, you had to look for this
stuff. The there's no looking for it.
All of them know uh all of them know
people who are who are um uh strongly
anti-Jewish. Uh all all of them have
people in their circle of friends that
that are like that. They they they all,
you know, as part of part of the
podcasts that they watch and the media
that that that that
affect them, they're they're confronted
with um uh powerful anti- anti-Jewish.
And by the way, also anti-Christian
Zionist messaging all the time. [snorts]
Does that make them anti-semites? No,
not at all. It might make them people
who are uh thinking about these things
and saying, you know, gosh, gosh, I
don't really know. So that
>> so it's a normal it's essentially a
normal part of the mix of arguments. It
is
>> that are in their ecosystem.
>> AB: Absolutely.
>> Yeah. There's a clear generational
divide, not just on this issue, but you
know, on on on many issues. The the the
uh uh the Republican party over 45 is a
completely different Republican party
from the Republican party under 45. And
the under 45s are among other
characteristics, they're very very much
online. Um they in terms of their their
their [clears throat] worldview they're
they're in a rebellion
uh against uh against the previous
generations and there's there's a good
deal of resentment some of it quite
justified part of this rebellion is also
uh theological looking for a a more
authentic form of Christianity and this
new generation's Christianity is one of
its most powerful characteristics
is rebellion against the old um uh
dispensationalist or you that's exactly
the right word, but let's say like the
forms of evangelicalism that have um uh
a clear place for the state of Israel in
the end times that are unfolding,
>> right? There's long-standing evangelical
Christian schools of thought that both
have [snorts] a narrative of the end of
the world or the apocalypse in which the
state of Israel plays a concrete role
and also a theology often where it's
sort of assumed that the new covenant
with Christians and the old covenant
with Jews sort of run in parallel.
>> Right. I just wanted to sort of clarify
that. But but go on.
>> Exactly. So uh so they were rebelling
against that all of the you know sort of
classical questions of you know why why
is the Old Testament in the Christian
Bible? Uh what are we supposed to get
out of it? Do the Jews have any role in
history at all or was it just supposed
to have ended? Um all of those questions
are they're on the table.
>> Right. And um and and I would say even
even more than that that this is
parallel with a just a a general
evaporation of Old Testament knowledge.
This this age group is looking for a um
a a a a much more uh um stronger
connection to uh to older traditions and
they don't necessarily know how to how
to find that. And um
>> and many of those older traditions have
a history of anti-semitism,
right? With I mean within Christianity,
right? Like the Catholic Church's
relationship to Judaism changed
substantially in the 1960s. Eastern
Orthodoxy's relationship to Judaism has
always been
>> complicated to put it mildly. Um, so you
so you think there is a sense of like
you're sort of reaching back towards
resources of the past and finding
[snorts]
Christianity's anti-semitic past there.
It's anti-Judaism.
>> No, I think I I think they're they're
reaching into the past uh and and and
coming up with all sorts of resources.
You've heard the word resourcement.
That's a that's a word that they use a
lot. uh is is uh reconnecting to the
sources. Um but when you're restoring a
tradition, you always have to interpret
it. There's no such thing as restoring
exactly what it was before. And so
there's a struggle among groups, but
also just a like an a struggle in in the
soul about um what aspects of what's
being restored are are things that are
appropriate. And um so just a couple
more characteristics about this this age
group. It they unlike the older
generation
um they don't really know Jews. Like
they c they they know liberal Jews.
>> Why? But but
>> why not?
[clears throat] because um because the
the whole the entire Trump movement,
the MAGA, the NATCON, the the entire
thing is itself a rebellion against
established elites. So, uh, if you were
being brought up in the old established
elites in the Republican party or the
Democratic party, um, it was just kind
of normal that all, you know, all those
people went on, uh, you know, on Apac
trips or or Federation trips to Israel
and you you got a lot of uh contact with
um with uh Jewish members of the
coalition and and it it was normal.
There's new elites in town. The right
has thousands of young people. Hundreds
of them have gone into the
administration and they are uh new to a
lot of things. And one of the things
that they're new to is sitting around
and and talking to religious Jews or
national nationalist Jews. So this has
not been, you know, an important part of
my uh my my job description for for
decades. You know, running trips to
Israel is not not what I do. But in uh
in the last year, I've started
experimenting with this together with
friends. And um I don't want to be too
optimistic, but
my experience with this so far is that
many of them are open and interested to
learn more. Much of what's missing right
now is uh is um making a relevant
educational experience is available to
those people who want it. I I think that
that would be much more effective than a
lot of what's going on in the public
debate right now where the you know the
there's all these accusations of you
know it's the 1930s it's it's VHimar and
so on. I I think that's not accurate.
But so I I think some of those
accusations come out of what has been
the dominant narrative about how Jews
should think about nationalism ever
since the 1930s and the VHimar era. uh
which basically takes for granted that
while maybe Jewish nationalism is good
for the Jews because it's enabled the
establishment of the state of Israel,
nationalism large is almost always bad
for the Jews, right? And I think there's
a lot of people, mostly left-wing,
center-left, liberal, but also some
people on the center right, who would
look at your work, your arguments, the
fact that you defend nationalism, you
run a conference organized around
nationalist principles, and they would
say, "Of course, he has ended up with
anti-semmites in his coalition. How
could anyone have ever been surprised
about that?"
Well, I I'm not I'm not completely sure
that I'm going to end up with
anti-semites in my coalition. I I I have
discovered uh that uh that a small
number of people who um
were trusted members have defected to a
somewhat different worldview. Uh they
don't have the same worldview in 2025
that they had in 2022. I'm really not
entirely sure what the causes of of that
were, but um I I I I think that the
assertion that national independence
leads to some kind of Nazism and
anti-semitism I I I I [snorts]
think it is uh um
u intellectually facious. I think what
is true is that Marxists and liberals
and nationalists all have their own ways
of coming to find it useful to uh to
hate Jews and to make the hatred of Jews
a a helpful political
um maneuver. And uh the nationalist
conservative movement is certainly not
immune to it. the people who are in
charge at this moment are not
anti-semmites and they're not
sympathetic to anti-semmites. So, uh
we'll see whether 5 years, 10 years, 25
years from now whether American
nationalism is going to be um
fundamentally like the movement that
Trump built which is very welcoming to
Jews uh or or whether it's going to be
something something very different.
>> Tell me about the virtues of
nationalism. You were saying it's good
if we can get nationalist American
Christians and nationalist Israeli Jews
together. What is the good thing that
they share? What's good about
nationalism?
>> Okay, so there's a a kind of a set
pattern of uh of uh the way political
order uh is thought about that goes all
the way back to antiquity. And you you
see this in Hebrew Bible, but you see it
in many other sources. You could say the
natural way for humans to live is in a
society of families and tribes and
clans. Every family has its uh um every
family has its own like foreign policy
basically, you know, like every family's
a militia. Every family
>> my my nine-year-old son would very much
endorse this this view. No, but I there
is a state of nature in which families
family families and tribes uh in
constant motion of allying and disalling
um [clears throat] that's probably the
way that human beings live through most
of our existence on earth. and um the uh
the imperial state, the the state
without limits uh that's familiar from
from the ancient the ancient Middle
East, the Babylonians, the Assyrians,
the Egyptians, and and then, you know,
on into Alexander and the Romans, these
these um empires with a mission to
conquer the world is, you know, not just
cuz because they get stuff out of it,
but also in order to bring peace and
prosperity to mankind because the
constant uh agit ation of a world in
which every family or every clan has a
foreign policy.
That that's what that's what imperialism
is supposed to to to put an end to.
Empire in uh in the Hebrew Bible is seen
uh largely as an an evil. I could temper
that, but largely it's seen as an evil.
And if you have a king that's from your
own people and prophets that are from
your own people and borders that you're
not supposed to cross cuz you don't have
an ambition to go conquer the whole
world. Um that world will be more just
and also more peaceful. The idea that
there is a a freedom you know what
centuries later people would call
national self-determination.
Um that's part of the inheritance of the
Hebrew Bible. So
God in the Old Testament, God creates
the Jewish nation, right? He calls
Abraham, he establishes Abraham, he
promises him limitless progeny and then
the story of the Hebrew Bible is the
story of that divinely ordained nation's
relationship to God. So in sense,
nationalism is from the Jews, right? But
does God create other nations in the
same way? Yes.
>> Say more about that because God doesn't
give from your perspective, God has not
given every nation a scripture and made
a covenant with every nation. He's done
something something special for the
Jewish nation.
>> For sure. For sure.
Everything you're saying is true, but
it's also it it is it is it is a more
complicated subject. And I I I don't you
know I don't know how deep we want to go
into it but the the um first of all uh
the use of the term nation nation in in
like the old biblical traditional sense
it has an aspect of kinship but it also
has an aspect of language and also has
an aspect of of uh of uh law and uh
religion.
I mean that there's there's uh uh the
the the Tower of Babel story. All the
world word the world is unified uh one
speech one one way of looking at things
and God doesn't like that. God likes
diversity for whatever reason. He
doesn't want mankind to be uh uh unified
and getting ideas. But the the the
bottom line is God creates the nations.
And um the the idea seems to be that
from the beginning or close to the
beginning, at least since Moses, um the
idea is that there'll be uh one nation
that uh has, you know, a better way of
life and a a better relationship with
God and that its job is going to be to
uh to teach that to the nations of the
world. It raises the question of really
was the Torah only given to the Jews
only at Sinai and the simple answer is
you know you can get away with saying
yes but when you know scripture you you
you know that it's not quite so
>> well let me imagine then an argument
that some of the younger Christians
you're talking about might be interested
in right which is something along the
lines of Judaism has this national
identity but Christianity is
universalizing it comes on the scene it
takes a Revelation given to one nation
and takes it to all people. It
inevitably yields a more universalist
world. America has elements of this
universalism. This sense of we are a
nation but we are welcoming all peoples.
We you know we do not have an
established church. All these kinds of
things, right? And from my perspective I
I think of America as a country that has
both sort of imperial universalizing
tendencies and nationalist tendencies.
And I take your argument. I think you
would acknowledge some of that and you
would say right now America needs more
nationalism, not more imperialism and
universalism. Is that right? What kind
of nationalism does America need right
now?
>> I think America is um suffering
terribly. Okay. Or at least significant
portions of America. Certainly these
young people that we're talking about on
the right. Let's start with something
very basic. After World War II, there's
a there's a project. There's a post
postWorld War II project to replace the
old Christian America, the the old
Protestant America. Replace that
framework with uh with what we today
call liberal democracy. Okay. It was
going on before that but you know kind
of came to its dramatic
uh moment when when uh uh when God God
and scripture were removed from from the
public schools in the 1960s
there they grew up in a world where
every choice that that you make is up to
you and all the choices are equal
where you know even their parents even
even in church
or synagogue, the they were told, "Do
what makes you feel good. Generate the
values from yourself. Do whatever you
think is right for you." Okay? Which,
you know, it it's not inherently a bad
thing to say, obviously, but in a
context in which nobody's saying,
"Listen, kids, marriage is better than
not being married. Having children is
better than not having children.
going to serve in the army is better
than not going to serve in the army. All
of these kinds of, you know, very
fundamental
uh moral and political guard rails that
give you like a direction. It's all been
shot away. And if once it's all shot
away, you don't have the basis for a a
common national culture and you don't
have the basis for continued existence
of a nation. it it it is palpably
tottering in the direction of
dissolution and civil war all the time.
The only way to uh to improve that
situation is to reassert some kind of
cultural center. Okay, that doesn't mean
you have to hate anybody who's, you
know, who's not included, but there has
to be some kind of cultural center in
America. That cultural center that there
aren't too many choices. It it has to be
Christianity. It has to be the common
law inheritance. It has to be the
English language. It it that there there
there are things that exist in the
tradition that can be restored and can
be used in order to uh to to to find a
center again. If that's not done, then
then uh America, it's it's just a matter
of time before it it it disintegrates
into pieces or until you have some
horrific horrific dictator who rises to
to uh impose order by force.
>> Right? But so I'm I'm trying to push
towards
a more American nationalism now means
what? It means slower immigration, not
no immigration with more emphasis on
assimilation and the English language.
But in Is that fair?
>> Okay. I I'm sorry. So So let me let me
be um uh first a slogan.
The the
uh the nationalist conservative
movement, it's got a few slogans. One of
them is uh national independence,
national interests, national traditions.
That that's you know it's not we don't
have an official committee for adopting
slogans. We do we do have a statement of
principles that was negotiated painfully
over many years. But um but I I think if
you want to simply understand like what
does this movement stand for that that's
a pretty pretty straightforward national
independence meanings meaning uh that um
uh the various nations of the west need
to uh shake shake off the the
um uh oppressive international
organizations
you know whether it's the EU or the
United Nations and to to uh resume
something that looks much more like
nations determining their own their own
destiny. National interests is uh
referring to the purpose of of national
government. Its purpose is you know like
like Trump says America first to to to
look out first and foremost for the
interests of the these people and then
the religion religion part enters into
the the national traditions. National
traditions means uh both constitutional
and religious uh traditions. You can add
you know linguistic and and and others.
And these discussions are happening in
many countries. But in the United
States, concretely,
uh the the the most obvious policy
issues have been um uh number one, uh
dramatically reduce immigration or
possibly end it for a period. This is a
framework that allows Americans to make
sense of demands like we, you know, we
we
we're we're over 15% of the population
is foreignb born. We need to take a
break. We have a right to because we we
we want to be able to preserve what what
was good about our society before before
largescale immigration.
this [clears throat] framework uh allows
people to understand why why it's
morally justifiable to think that way
>> in order to go back to your prior point
to encourage assimilation
rather than to encourage racial purity.
>> Yeah.
This this has nothing to do with race.
There's strong reasons when you when you
study scripture to notice that God is
really unhappy with uh with with the
idea that people should just be unjustly
persecuted because you know because they
they belong to some other people. One of
one of the things that's endlessly
frustrating about these these
discussions again on the podcasts is
that they talk about the Old Testament
as though it doesn't have love the
strangers yourself for for for you were
strangers in Egypt or any of many other
such passages.
>> What what does this mean in foreign
policy? What does the American alliance
system look like under conditions of
nationalist revival for instance?
>> Okay, important important to emphasize.
I I'm skeptical of of big political
answers that are supposed to just, you
know, solve our problems. The argument
is that in general we're better off if
we have we have to choose whether we
want to pursue world empire like do we
want uh America to be in in part about
uh sending its armed forces to
Afghanistan in order to help make sure
that the Afghanis have a constitution
and a worldview that looks like ours.
So my my view is no, that's terrible for
Americans. It's not good for Afghanis
either. And and that that shouldn't be
the framework. The framework should be a
world of independent nations where first
of all they you know that they each
nation looks after itself. Does that
mean that those are all going to be um
nations that I would want to live in?
No, of course not.
the the the principle of national
independence can be a good principle
without you know having this sort of
like um uh deductive you know because
nationalism in general is good that
means there are no bad nationalists well
that's that's ridiculous I mean the the
our topic's anti-semitism of course of
course they're nationalist anti-semmites
but there also Marxist anti-semmites
there's lots of liberal anti-semmites
which is something that strange Angley
keeps getting left out of this
conversation. I mean, the the the idea
that being a liberal, like an
enlightenment liberal thinker makes you
immune to anti-semitism, that that
that's absurd.
>> Can you say something about why people
who are liberals or people who are on
the left would be tempted towards
anti-semitism. I think there are
listeners and viewers for whom the
narrative of nationalism yields to
anti-semitism is just much more
intuitive than a narrative of left-wing
politics leading to anti-semitism.
>> Right? That that's a postworld war II
uh phenomenon like an intellectual spin
to think oh uh Hitler was a nationalist
therefore nationalism leads to
anti-semitism.
Um but liberalism has a has a lavish
history of anti-semitism.
The the liberal enlightenment, the
encyclopedists, Voltater, uh
is is is rotten with anti-semitism.
the German enlightenment, Kant Hegel and
and and many many others is is just is
is just horrific in in it's
>> because because the Jews are seen as
this preodern
holdover that resists liberalism. What
what is the
>> all the Enlightenment rationalists, all
of them, they think that what they're
doing is they're moving the world
towards reason. They're they're they're
dropping tradition. They're dropping God
and specifically they're dropping uh
they're they're dropping the Bible um
for all sorts of reasons. They're
extremely aggressive against the Hebrew
Bible and against the the Jews, whereas
they're more careful with how they
handle the New Testament and
Christianity. And so what you get is I
mean this should sound familiar because
these people are still around today. you
get the view that um the the Old
Testament it's about genocide, it's
about tribalism, it it it's about war,
it's about vengeance, it's about an
obsession with the land, it's about um
the the the claim of specialness and
superiority of particular people. And
the Enlightenment, they they hate
particularism. They hate it. They it
drives them completely bananas to have a
particularistic religion. And so the the
the hatred of Jews is because the the
Jews are the number one like they're the
classical example of a of of a
particularism. And they want
particularism destroyed. They they think
you can't get close to God if you don't
drop your particularism and and use
reason to get to a un universal truth
that's accessible to everybody. And then
this is transferred to contemporary
debates where Israel as a particularist
nation is seen as an affront to liberal
left-wing universalizing sentiments.
>> Absolutely. So I'm I'm not trying to
solve all the problems with this idea of
a world of independent nations. I'm
trying to solve some problems.
>> Let me let me editorialize at you for a
moment,
>> please.
I think that whether or not a listener
is persuaded by your case for
nationalism, the reality of nationalism
right now, the reality of a nationalist
turn all around the world is just
overdetermined by tons of different
forces. So I think it's tremendously
important to figure out what a virtuous
nationalism looks like because we're
going to have nationalisms in in the
21st century. But I also pretty much
take it for granted that an effect of a
more nationalist world and a more
nationalist America is a deep change in
the relationship that the US has had
with Israel for the last 50 to 70 25
whatever whatever period you you want to
you want to suggest, right? Protestant
Americans looked at Israel and saw a
country that had a similarly biblically
rooted religion that was all, you know,
we were both settler societies and so
on. There were these sort of
commonalities of nationalism, but a big
part of the USIsrael bond was a sort of
a kind that some of that universalism
that you that you were talking about
after World War II that was related in
revulsion against the Holocaust and
Hitler that was related in a sort of
evangelical Christian universalism that
went beyond American borders. I I just
don't see how you can have a world or an
America that retreats from universalism,
retreats from liberal empire without
having a lot more skepticism about the
USIsrael special relationship. Am I
wrong?
>> Well, I think I think that the
relationship is going to change for the
reasons that you're saying. I I I'm not
sure it's a it's exactly correct to
frame it as uh
Americans had faith in the relationship
and now they have skepticism. I I I I
think we we are in a uh in a
transitional time on many many issues
and one one of one of the issues is the
way America conducts foreign policy.
America's old way of conducting foreign
policy uh for for two generations was um
to see itself as kind of a you know a
global policeman with responsibilities
to you know to everything in the world
and um and [clears throat]
specifically with regard to countries
that were you know that were labeled
liberal democracy like whether they were
correctly labeled or not but you know
once they got labeled that way um then
then there was an attitude of uh
America's in charge. Okay. And and uh
there have definitely been you know
benefits to Israel of this but it's it
is worth emphasizing that you know since
since right now there are all these
people saying you know Israel could
never survive without the United States.
Israel's created by the it it's not
true. Um uh Israel and America have an
extremely [clears throat] special
special relationship for the reasons
that you said and um but it's no nobody
should be thinking that uh Israel has to
be an American protector forever. that
this is I'm not only talking about, you
know, the the the feelings on on the
American right where um the uh the the
the aid to Israel has been an issue for
forever. I mean, since I was a kid, that
that's been an issue for the American
right. I'm pretty sure that after after
the Biden administration, most Israelis
have figured out um that the aid is it's
a two-edged sword. And I I don't I don't
think Israel Israelis want to have uh
forever to be being, you know, told uh
what to do down to the level of uh which
street in Gaza uh should you send troops
to uh from across the Atlantic. I I
think it's a disaster for America to be
um uh to be involved in other people's
wars at that level. So, I'm I'm not
going to say how much of what we're
seeing on the American right right now
is driven by the Gaza war, but clearly
it's not irrelevant to the story, right?
And you have a number of American
conservatives, nationalist politicians
like Marjorie Taylor Green standing up
and saying, you know, I think that the
war in Gaza is unjust or I think Israel
is committing war crimes and things and
things like that, right?
How do you navigate
that kind of tension, I guess, from the
point of view of America or Israel?
Well, if if the United States feels
that, you know, that uh that um uh
war crimes
are being committed, I I I think it's
pretty normal for ambassadors to, you
know, to protest and if things are are
are are bad enough to take steps to try
to change things. But I don't think
that's the right way to look at the at
the anti-semitic, right? Let's let me
just give it a label because uh because
anti-semitism certainly doesn't cover
the entire entirety of what's going on.
Um there's always been an alt-right. I
don't know always, but you know, ever
since there was an internet, there was
an alt-right. Everybody knew what it
was. Um it's it's not a co it's not a
coherent set of an ideology or
something. It's a it's a bunch of
different ideas and different movements
um which in general like some of them
are um you know sick of the American
Constitution. They want to overthrow it.
Some of them are sick of of uh God and
scripture. They want to overthrow that.
Some of them are are and and some of
them are sick of of having, you know,
Jews involved in in uh uh in coalition
politics in the United States and they'd
like to end that. Um, but that alt-right
was always a pretty peripheral.
Um, for all the years that I've been
involved in this up until 2023.
Okay. Now, 2023,
uh, [gasps] as you say, it's it's
overdetermined. I mean, you know,
obvious obviously that's, you know, that
that that's when October 7th happened
and that was the beginning of is
Israel's war and it affects everything.
But um but uh other other things were
going on. Tucker Carl Car Carlson did
not you know he didn't leave Fox News uh
early 2023 because of the war which
started in October. Um Tucker's Tucker's
uh move into sort of the alt-right
space. It preceded this war. Um, so
there there are other things going on
and um
I'm not
well let let me say this um
well [snorts] let me say let me say this
somewhat forcefully.
I have not discovered that the
that the
[clears throat] openness to anti-semitic
messaging on the right under the age of
45. I have not noticed that it is uh a
reaction almost at all to uh to you know
supposed Israeli genocide or or
accusations of war crimes in Gaza. when
you talk to the actual people you um the
relevant people that we're talking about
honestly they they they have no
interest. It's true that um that
Carlson's program and Dave Smith and a
whole bunch of other online people are
importing the arguments of the left. I
mean they're basically reading Haritz.
reading, you know, Israel's Bolevik, you
know, lefty lefty newspaper, which is,
you know, it's it's uh strange to have
people who are supposed to be
conservatives learning these things from
Boleviks. It's a little bit weird, but
the actual people that we're talking
about, the people like we're worried
about 10 years from now, 20 years from
now, who's these elites, they're going
to be in government in the United
States. Those people do not they don't,
as far as I can tell, they don't buy the
Gaza line. They do have openness to
Jewish skepticism and to possible
anti-semitism, but it's not about Gaza.
See, to me that's a very pessimistic
reading from my perspective because it
seems to suggest
the Gaza war is hopefully a temporary
foreign policy crisis that you know has
has yielded
all kinds of concerns about the US
relationship to Israel, all kinds of
concerns about Israeli policy. But those
concerns could be time bound, right?
they could be removed from the stage.
And if I'm being optimistic about the
trajectory of anti-semitism on the right
or left, I would say remove remove the
Gaza war and the arguments about its
justice and injustice from this debate.
And a bunch of people who are not
hardcore anti-semmites, but are sort of
peripherilally drawn to those arguments.
the kind of people who, you know, might
read about Jeffrey Epstein and say, "Oh,
you know, this Jewish financier and
people are saying he was blackmailing
the US and that ex maybe that explains
why the US isn't doing more to stop the
Gaza war." Like that's a kind of a kind
of train of thought. You cut off some of
those trains of thought, you change the
foreign policy dynamic and anti-semitism
doesn't go away, but it diminishes. If
that's not the case, then it seems to me
that we're talking about more something
that's fundamentally rooted in the
culture of the internet, maybe the
culture of of parts of my own religion.
You're suggesting that that seems to me
to be a a darker narrative, a reason to
be more pessimistic. But you can I'm
sorry, I wasn't I I was I know you were
trying to be optimistic. I was trying
No, I was just trying to be factual. Um,
this is not this tremendous hurricane of
a fight that we're seeing uh on the
right between Jews and Zionist
Christians against an emerging faction
which is uh hostile to Jews and Zionist
Christians being part of the coalition.
This this fight is not about foreign
policy. It was I I don't think it was
ever about foreign policy, but it it but
but but it doesn't matter. It's very
easy to see that it's not about foreign
policy because when when the issue was
Trump is about to start World War II
because the Jews are, you know, are are
are dragging him into into into
uh war with Iran. Um the [clears throat]
United States is going to occupy Iran.
Thousands of people are going to die.
China's going to enter. Russia's going
to enter. We're going to lose. like th
those were very very prominently uh
stated views about what was going to
happen up until June 22nd. After June
22nd, if this were a foreign policy
issue, then what should have happened is
that people should say, "Wow, um this
this isn't the old uh neocon foreign
policy. It's not about, you know,
conquering the whole world and turning
it into liberal democracies. It's
something else. It's much more
realistic. It's much more
about surgically
uh placing some American power at uh
um into play in in contexts in which
American allies have been doing most of
the fighting themselves. June 22nd could
have happened. We could have been June
23rd and all the people who said these
totally crazy things about World War II
and all the they could have just said I
was wrong. The Trump
>> Well, nothing nothing ever happens that
fast. No fairness in political debates.
Fine. It could it could have been 3
weeks later, whatever, a month later. It
there wasn't no that something did
happen that was fast. What happened was
that with that instead of saying, "Oh,
um, the Trump team, they, you know,
they're actually pretty good at this.
They actually know what they're doing.
They're they're not the old neocons."
Instead of saying that, they immediately
the same the same
>> complex of podcasters. Um,
they immediately switched to Epstein.
They immediately went to I mean, it got
>> But so doesn't that part of it just got
it got much worse. the the anti-Jewish
messaging over the summer was much worse
than before the the the Iran attack
because it went to Epstein and after
Epstein it went to to to Charlie Kirk
and and did the Jews kill Charlie Kirk?
The the there was there there has been
all year long a non-stop anti-Jewish
uh campaign
to differing degrees in different
podcasts. And that campaign is not about
foreign policy. Foreign policy is is one
of the tools in in uh in its arsenal.
But I I but then I feel like you are in
a way making a version of
what would be the sort of typical
liberal argument about the problems of
nationalism because these podcasters who
you're talking about not all of them but
many of them I think a lot of people
would just say like these are part of
the constellation of nationalism and
populism in American politics.
Certainly, you know, Carlson himself was
a was a speaker. Yes.
>> At at NatCon, right?
>> And so, aren't you then left with with
the conclusion that if it's not foreign
policy that's doing it, then
a resurgent nationalism in America was
always just going to develop an
anti-semitism problem? I mean, do do you
think do you estimate the liberal
critique of nationalism slightly higher,
I [laughter] guess, in a world of do you
do you give it any more credit than you
would have three years ago? And then and
then I'll ask what you do about it. But
>> no, I'm I'm sorry. I I mean I you know,
like I I I really want to help with
that, but I I but I can't. No, I I I
have um I
uh I don't um
as I said before,
I
I think that hating Jews um is a useful
tool and ideologically
makes sense
um
for some people within the Marxist
framework, within the liberal framework,
and within the nationalist framework. I
mean, the the Jews are never going to
stop being uh a potentially useful
target because it's a it's it's a a
small group of people with a lot more
influence uh than than their numbers
suggest, which is an which is annoying.
It's annoying to people that that that's
the fact. um the the specific
uh context of of you know western
history in which uh Jews Jews continue
to represent um the Mosaic law and the
Old Testament as a living religion which
is you know lots of Christians admire it
lots of Christians feel like like it you
know we're brothers and and I feel that
way uh but many people are always going
to say, um, no, they're ch that this
religion is ch is challenging to my
Christianity. I've got to, you know,
I've I've got to suppress it somehow. I
I just I I don't think that that's
intrinsic to nationalism. But well, but
maybe it's but maybe it's this then each
form of politics has specific things
intrinsic to it that are picked up by
anti-semites. So maybe liberal and
leftwing anti-semmites say Jews offend
against our cosmopolitan universalism by
remaining particularist. But within the
context of nationalism, it turns out to
be
>> Christianity, a certain kind of
conspiratorial anxiety about elites and
and then the internet supercharging it.
And maybe I mean that's that's how I'm
interpreting what you're saying. So what
we'll we'll end here. What
do you, but not just you, what do
leaders of a nationalist conservatism
who aren't anti-semmites
do about it? What does Donald Trump What
do you think Donald Trump or JD Vance
should be doing about this what you've
just described as a roing battle?
>> Um, look, Trump already gave us a model
like he he already did did something. He
built a nationalist coalition
um which had many different groups in it
and he very skillfully made sure that
the that the different parts of the
coalition were honored and to a large
degree giving honor to one another. A
political coalition like this it's you
know it's a lot like a marriage. If if
um
the the two parties, the husband and
wife, they're always going to have
different opinions and to a certain
extent different interests. And if they
um honor one another uh despite the
differences, then you can get through it
and you can have a beautiful marriage.
if they not willing to honor one another
and instead instead
the each side feels like I've just got
to say everything I think about about
you. No, now sit and listen. I'm going
to tell you all about what I think.
Okay, so that that's what's happening on
these podcasts. The Trump coalition was
built on, you know, trying to give honor
to everybody, which meant that
everybody's unhappy certain certain at
certain moments because you can't honor
everybody equally all the time. But but
he made it work. Trump made it work.
What's happening on these podcasts is a
completely is is an exertation to a
completely different kind of politics. I
let me just a few examples quickly so
that that it's clear what I'm talking
about.
Podcasts that say repeatedly that the
Old Testament is about uh violence and
genocide or the repeated claim claim
that Jews are demonic. the Jews are a
demonic force in history. Or the
repeated claim that Jews are trying to
kill every Christian in the Middle East
and they have a plan to do it. Or the
repeated claim that that uh that the
Jews rule the American government or
that the Jews shot Kennedy or I mean you
could just keep going on and on that
Zionist Christians that that they're
heretics and that it's idolatry. All of
these messages they are, you know, fine.
It's people have a right to their
opinion, but they they're they're
abusive, wild slanders and in a context
in which the political coalition is
constantly having to to uh absorb these
attacks on one or another part of the
coalition, you're not going to be able
to maintain it. But so how that's
placing the agency with
people offering anti-semitic arguments
online, right? But presumably they're
not Candace Owens is probably not going
to listen to this podcast and say, "Ah,
Yorm Hazone has convinced me to stop
saying that Israel was involved in
Charlie Kirk's assassination." Right?
the people who are listening to you
presumably are the leaders of
conservative institutions like the
Heritage Foundation which has been in
the news for its difficulty navigating
this but also Donald Trump JD Vance
would be future leaders of the
Republican party and I will say one
thing about Trump is that he has a
unique kind of charisma that I have come
to appreciate you know in reluctantly
over his years but Trump got people to
vote vote for him in 2024 who wanted the
US to do more to support Israel and its
war in Gaza and who wanted the US to to
stop the war tomorrow. Right? He got
Arab Muslims in Dearbornne, Michigan and
right-wing Jews in, you know, greater
New York City, right? That's a unique
political talent and maybe it creates
tensions that are just really hard to
manage for his successors. So, I I want
you to give advice.
just give advice to JD Vance. What what
should JD Vance do about anti-semitism
in his coalition?
>> Okay, look,
>> in the next not tomorrow, but over the
next two years,
>> I I I deliver my advice to JD and to
other people in Washington, you know,
not not over the airwaves and they might
not appreciate it, but let's
>> a hypothetical leader of a hypothetical
right of center party. Is it put it this
way are you trying to is it more put it
is it more about
sort of vocal condemnation you need
people to draw a bright line or is it
more about institutional gatekeeping
like making sure you are making
decisions about who is occupying
leadership positions who you're hiring
and so on.
the basic the the like the fundamental
skill that you and I are admiring in in
Donald Trump and we're and uh we're
hoping no and no but you know he he's
got it he does um and you know
>> he he has that skill
>> um we're hoping to see in JD or whoever
is going to be the the the uh the next
Republican or conservative uh leader.
We're hoping to see a similar skill.
What exactly is that skill? That skill
is the skill of determining
what the boundaries of the coalition
are. Right? That means it it has a
boundary to the left. It has a boundary
to the right. Every coalition has
boundaries. There's no such thing as a
as an as a coalition that's that's just
open on one side. It doesn't exist. So
it means determining it means
determining who's in and who's out. This
is not the same thing as cancelling them
or making them illegal. The question is
who's sitting at the table when when
when you're making making decisions.
Nick Fuentes does not have to sit at the
table when you're making decisions. Part
of that job of deciding who's in and
who's out is uh is um uh giving honor,
but part of it also is laying down the
law. It means um that if uh if
particular uh individuals or politicians
or streams um look like they could be
in, they've been in before, you know,
they could be in again, but if they're
causing too much trouble, then the the
the the person who's heading the
coalition, the person who's building it,
maintaining it every day, has to be able
to say, "Look, I need your help. I need
you to knock it off. here are the things
I want you to stop doing or here are
some things that I want you to do in
order to make it possible for this
coalition to survive.
>> Do you think it's hard for Republican
leaders to do that right now? Do you
think people again generic Republican
leaders? Do you think that they're
>> do you think that they're afraid of the
forces?
>> Yes. But but um part of what we're
seeing and this is this is a crucial
point.
They didn't they didn't understand
until very very recently that this
dynamic exists at all. Most of the the
the people in the administration and
other significant figures, you know, the
the the the Heritage Foundation, Turning
Point USA, all these other big pieces of
the uh of the nationalist right, many
many of them, almost all in fact, almost
all of the leaders have been um silent.
so far
uh in in in trying to to navigate this
summer's explosion of uh a anti-Jewish
messaging. I mean, it it is a hurricane.
And I I already said what their job is,
but I I didn't say anything about
timetable. Um uh Kevin Roberts from
Heritage is a close friend. He he he
stepped stepped forward to try to to to
try to make order in this and uh and
destabilized his institution because
because the hurricane forces are too
strong and he didn't completely
understand what it was that he was
stepping into. Now Kevin like virtually
everyone else that I know in Washington
is fundamentally ecumenical in his
worldview. He wants to see a coalition
that's Protestants, Catholics, and Jew
Jews working together for for to make
America great and and for the, you know,
and and and he's got all these people
attacking him and saying saying that,
you know, saying that he's an
anti-semite. It's extremely unnerving.
Um, and it's unnerving for everybody. I
think it it's going to take some time.
Look, I know that people are uh that
many people many many people feel such
terrible things are being said. Um
JD's got to speak up. You know, Kevin's
got to speak up. The the the leaders
have to speak up. Trump has to speak up.
I I understand it. I sympathize. But
that's not that's not the way it works.
What needs to happen is for an
appropriate set of decisions to be made
over and it it over time responsibly uh
about
who's going to be in the coalition,
who's going to be outside of the
coalition. That means hearing people
out. That means learning about this
crisis which most of the relevant
players they just they didn't know until
a few weeks ago that there was such a
crisis. So now they're learning for the
first time that uh that they have this
problem and um I assume that they're
that Heritage is going to solve the
problem. I I I I I know a little bit
about what steps they're taking and um I
think it's very very likely that
Heritage is going to uh u to to get on
uh an appropriate and and uh and
excellent path. And I think that's true
for the other institutions we're talking
about. People need to learn this
subject. Nobody thought that
anti-semitism on the right was going to
be one of the top three or four things
that American political leaders had to
to think about six months ago. So now it
is. Now they have to think about it.
There's a lot of good people like really
really really good people who are uh in
the administration and in these think
tanks and they're working on it. And um
from what I saw in the last two weeks in
Washington, I I I I believe that they
will eventually uh come to appropriate
conclusions.
>> All right. I imagine we'll have chances
to revisit this argument [music] in the
not too distant future, but for now,
Yorone, thank you so much for joining
me.
>> Thank you for having me. My pleasure.
Heat. Hey, Heat.
[music]